
README (BashSieve)

    Definition

        Script to remove specific Bash history entries upon logout, to
        prevent critical commands and certain terms from remaining in it.

    Details

        If not disabled or manually cleared, the Bash keeps all the executed
        commands by writing them into its history file, including lines with
        passwords in it. For example, when executing

            mount -t cifs //192.168.1.24/foobar /mnt \
                  -o user=johndoe,pass=S3cr37P455wD

        the username, password, and IP address will be kept inside the history
        unless you manually:

            history -c

        Otherwise the command remains in it. However, clearing the history
        that way will delete all commands executed before.

        The BashSieve script simply removes specific user-defined Bash history
        entries on logout and prevents critical information (such as commands,
        passwords, IP addresses, etc.) from remaining in it.

        So far, this tool is still very rudimentary.

    Usage

        First of all, add the following line at the end the '.bashrc' file
        inside of your home directory. For example, in case the BashSieve
        script is located in '/opt/bashsieve':

            trap '/opt/bashsieve/bashsieve.sh' exit

        Of course, you can also place the script somewhere inside your home
        directory, but putting it into '/opt/bashsieve' makes it available for
        all users.

        Edit the 'bashsieve.list' file and add the corresponding commands or
        erms that should be removed by BashSieve. Details can be found inside
        that file.

        After logging out and logging in again BashSieve will be triggered on
        every future logout and remove lines with the given terms in them.

        Alternatively BashSieve can instantly be enabled by manually reloading
        your local '.bashrc' file using

            . ~/.bashrc

        or via the long form:

            source ~/.bashrc

    Contact

        Any suggestions, questions, bugs to report or feedback to give? If so,
        you can find the contact information inside the 'CONTACT' file.

